---
title: "Lore & lei"
date: "2023-09-28 9:45AM"
categories: ["workflow", "tools"]
tags: ["workflow", "tools"]
---

## What's the problem ?

I started working on the kernel code since a month and I cannot seem to wrap my
head around the email based kernel workflow - since my experience is always with
fancy tools like gerrit/git PR for openbmc application development.In this post
we will look at how one can avoid subscribing to various kernel mailing lists to
grab the patches of interest. So lets delve into a bit of background.

## What's LKML ?

The Linux kernel mailing list (LKML) is the main electronic mailing list for
Linux kernel development, where the majority of the announcements, discussions,
debates, and flame wars over the kernel take place.Many other mailing lists exist
to discuss the different subsystems and ports of the Linux kernel, but LKML is
the principal communication channel among Linux kernel developers. It is a very
high-volume list, usually receiving about 1,000 messages each day, most of which
are kernel code patches.

Linux utilizes a workflow governed by LKML, which is the "bazaar" where kernel
development takes place.

In his book Linux Kernel Development, Robert Love notes:

> If the Linux kernel community had to exist somewhere physically, it would call
> the Linux Kernel Mailing List home.

The moment I registered for this mailing list, my inbox is flooded with patches
and its really exhausting to follow what's going on (or) look for patches of
interest.

Is there a way to get the patches / discussion of interest without needing to
register to the LKML ? Yes  - The answer is [lore](https://lore.kernel.org/)

## lore's search syntax

Public-inbox uses Xapian behind the scenes, which allows to narrowly tailor the
keyword database to very specific needs.

For example, did you know that you can search lore.kernel.org for patches that
touch specific files? Here's every patch that touched the MAINTAINERS file:

<https://lore.kernel.org/all/?q=dfn%3AMAINTAINERS>

How about every patch that modifies a function that starts with floppy_:

<https://lore.kernel.org/all/?q=dfhh%3Afloppy_*>

Say you're the floppy driver maintainer and wanted to find all mail that touches
drivers/block/floppy.c and modifies any function that starts with floppy_ or has
`floppy` in the subject and maybe any other mail that mentions `floppy` and has
the words `bug` or `regression`? And maybe limit the results to just the past
month.

Here's the query:

    (dfn:drivers/block/floppy.c OR dfhh:floppy_* OR s:floppy
     OR ((nq:bug OR nq:regression) AND nq:floppy))
    AND rt:1.month.ago..

And here are the results:

<https://lore.kernel.org/all/?q=%28dfhh%3Afloppy_*+OR+dfn%3Adrivers%2Fblock%2Ffloppy.c+OR+s%3Afloppy+OR+%28%28nq%3Abug+OR+nq%3Aregression%29+AND+nq%3Afloppy%29%29+AND+rt%3A1.month.ago..>

Now, how about getting that straight into your mailbox, so you don't have to
subscribe to the (very busy) linux-block list, if you are the floppy maintainer?

## More about lore

The [LWN](https://lwn.net/) website frequently covers discussion on the LKML, and
the newsletter Kernel Traffic covered the activities of the LKML.Many internet
websites include archives of the mailing list, such as lore.kernel.org/lkml,
lkml.org, mail-archive.com.

Out of all the mail archiving platform mentioned above, lore.kernel.org is
looked as best mail distributed mailing list archival framework with powerful
search capabilities.

Even though it started out as merely a list archival service, it quickly became
obvious that lore could be used for a lot more. Many developers ended up using
its search features to quickly locate emails of interest, which in turn raised a
simple question — what if there was a way to “save a search” and have it deliver
all new incoming mail matching certain parameters straight to the developers'
inbox?

You can now do this with [lei](https://man.archlinux.org/man/lei.1.en)

On ubuntu systems , lei can be installed by following command:

```bash
 sudo apt install lei
```

## lore meets lei

Let's say we want all the emails that talked about eSPI kernel device driver in
openbmc. we could leverage lei-q options and frame the command like this :

```bash
lei q -o ~/Mail/openbmc \n
      --threads --dedupe=mid \n
      -I https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/ \n
      -t 's:eSPI'
```

Before you run it, let's understand what it's going to do:

`-I https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/` will query the aggregated index that
contains information about all mailing lists archived on lore.kernel.org/openbmc.

`-o ~/Mail/openbmc` will create a new Maildir folder and put the search results
there. Make sure that this folder doesn't already exist, or lei will clobber
anything already present there (unless you use --augment, but I haven't tested
this very extensively yet, so best to start with a clean slate).

`--threads` will deliver entire threads even if the match is somewhere in the
middle of the discussion. This is handy if, for example, someone says “this
sounds like a bug in the floppy subsystem” somewhere in the middle of a
conversation and --threads will automatically get you the entire conversation
context.

`--dedupe=mid` will deduplicate results based on the message-id header. The
default behavior is to dedupe based on the body contents, but with so many
lists still adding junky “sent to the foo list” footers, this tends to result
in too many duplicated results. Passing --dedupe=mid is less safe (someone
could sneak in a bogus message with an identical message-id and have it
delivered to you instead), but more convenient. YMMV, BYOB.

As always, backslashes and newlines are there just for readability — you don't
need to use them.

After the command completes, you should get something similar to what is below:

``` bash
# /home/manojeda/.local/share/lei/store 0/0
# /usr/bin/curl -Sf -s -d '' https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/?x=m&t=1&q=s%3AeSPI
# https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/ 19/?
# https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/ 35/?
# https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/ 63/?
# https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/ 130/130
# 130 written to /home/manojeda/Mail/openbmc/ (130 matches)
```

A few things to notice here:

The command actually executes a curl call and retrieves the results as an mbox
file and wrote 130 messages into the maildir.

That's all about `lore` and `lei`, in my next post we will explore various options
of `lei` and how to load results obtained from `lei` into something interesting
called `mutt`.
