---
title: "lei & mutt"
date: "2023-09-29 7:52AM"
categories: ["workflow"]
tags: ["workflow", "tools"]
---

In my previous post we have dicsussed how we can leverage `lei` tool to grab the
emails & patches of interest from [lore](https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc). In this
post lets explore more of `lei` and also see how we can configure `mutt` to grab
the data that we got from `lei`.

## More options of lei

By default, lei -q will save your search and start keeping track of it. To see
your saved searches, run:

```bash
$ lei ls-search
    /home/manojeda/Mail/openbmc
```

To fetch the newest messages that matches our query:

```bash
lei up ~/Mail/openbmc
```

You will notice that the first line of output will say that lei automatically
limited the results to only those that arrived since the last time lei was invoked
for this particular saved search, so you will most likely get no new messages.

As you add more queries in the future, you can update them all at once using:

```bash
$ lei up --all
```

To delete a saved search, run:

```bash
lei forget-search ~/Mail/openbmc
```

This doesn't delete anything from ~/Mail/openbmc, it just makes it impossible to
run lei up to update it.

## Whats mutt ?

[Mutt](https://www.mutt.org) is a small but very powerful text-based mail client
for Unix operating systems. why mutt ? well let me quote the reason from mutt's
philosophy :

```
All mail clients suck. This one just sucks less.
```
So the requirement is that, I want to be able to look at what requires my attention,
respond if I need to, ignore it if I don’t. Configuring mutt takes a little more
time and patience. To that end I wrote up a basic .muttrc that uses the lei setup,
and incorporates the settings I care about with comments about what each section
does so you can take and leave the parts of it you care about.

```
# Configure mutt to read from the lei maildir inbox
set mbox_type=Maildir
set folder="~/Mail/openbmc"
set mbox="~/Mail/openbmc"
set record="+.Sent"
set postponed="+.Drafts"
set spoolfile="~/Mail/openbmc"

# Sort by threads so I can see wtf is going on
set sort="threads"
set strict_threads="yes"
set sort_browser="reverse-date"
set sort_aux="last-date-received"
set collapse_unread="yes"

# Lets me collapse fucking everything
bind index = collapse-all
bind index - collapse-thread

# Show Message-Id in the window
unignore Message-Id:

# Use msmtp to send email
set sendmail = "/usr/bin/msmtp"
set realname = "Manojkiran Eda"
set from = "manojkiran.eda@gmail.com"
set use_from = "yes"
set envelope_from = "yes"

# Use vim as my editor
set editor = "vim"

# Show the headers in the compose view
set edit_headers = "yes"
```

A nice, straightforward `.muttrc` that gets the job done. There might some other
things that you might wanna tweak based on your usage, but by-in-large this lets
me do the job for now.

now run mutt:

```bash
$ mutt
```

There is seperate setup needed to configure the `msmtp`. In fact the next post
would talk more about `msmtp` and how to configure it to work with gmail to send
patches straight from `mutt`.
